AIM of the PROJECT

This project aims to identify the possible author of an anonymous mail from a group of
potential suspects. From the functionality point of view, the input is an anonymous mail
and a group of suspects and mails written by them and the output will be one (or more)
suspects whom the mail could have been written by. To justify our claim we do the
following, we evaluate the similarity of the write-prints of the malicious mail and the
suspects. There is a general observation that there is a particular style of writing
associated with every individual. Now, the confidence with which we will be able to make
the claim depends on the versatility of our write-print. So, what is this write-print that
we have been referring to? It consists of a measure of lexical, syntactical, structural,
and content-specific attributes of every individuals writing style.


MOTIVATION and SOLUTION

We came across this problem of e-mail authorship analysis in the journal named 'Digital
Investigation'. A paper named 'A novel approach of mining write-prints for authorship
attribution in e-mail forensics' in the above journal was the primary motivation behind
this project. (The article can be produced on request). We discussed about the article
together and found ourselves quite interested in this problem. We were motivated to look
at ways to solve this problem and we want to implement and verify the success of the
implementation discussed in the article.

What purpose will it serve? We think the project idea has in it all. Digital investigation
is a growing field of study and it is of great help to the intelligentia in curbing
various political problems like terrorism. Moreover, with the increasing e-mail traffic,
comes illegitimate use of e-mails such as phishing, spamming, cyber bullying, child
pornography, etc. To prevent such crimes, it demands a lot of technology and intelligence,
which our project strives to serve.

EXPECTED OUTCOMES of the PROJECT

Minimum Outcome : Extract statistically unique write-prints out of the given e-mails and
attribute a stylometry for every suspect.

Ambitious Outcome : Attribute the anonymous e-mail to a particular suspect and verify its
confidence. Generate new e-mails (probably using random sentence generator) and verify the
percentage of success of the project.

Very Ambitious Outcome : Collect spam e-mails from the same company and check how good is
the program's estimation. 